README.md, before:

OmniCut Better Stonecutter, Woodcutter, and Recycling
=====================================================

OmniCut is a quality of life Datapack for Minecraft that expands on the
capabilities of the Stonecutter block.

Cutting
-------

### Wood Cutting

The Stonecutter can cut wood logs into a variety of wood products (e.g., stairs,
slabs, fences, doors, etc.) Prices are consistent with the plank-based crafting
recipe. Logs can be converted to Woods (at a discount).

### Copper cutting

The Stonecutter can cut Copper block variants into the corresponding Cut Copper
Stairs and Slabs variants.

### Deepslate conversion

The Stonecutter can  convert Deepslate blocks to Cobbled Deepslate blocks.

Recycling
---------

### Stone upcycling

The Stonecutter can revert cut blocks into the original form (e.g., Polished
Andesite Stairs back to an Andesite block).

Note that similarly to Polished and Bricks variants, Smooth and Cracked variants
can also convert to the base block, but remember that the only way to smooth or
crack a stone is using the furnace.

### Wood recycling

Both the Stonecutter and the crafting table can be used to downcycle/recycle
wood products (e.g., doors to planks, slabs to sticks, etc.)

### Slab reassembly

The Crafting Table can reassemble slabs into blocks. The recipe is two slabs
side-by-side horizontally.

About Item Pricing
------------------

Unlike many predecessors, **this datapack does not intend to significantly
reduce the price of items compared to vanilla pricing.** The prices have been
set so that, beside the customary discount on stairs, the prices are identical
when using the Stonecutter versus the crafting table recipe. This is only a
quality of life change w.r.t. the number of clicks required to create the items,
and to reduce the number of leftover junk items by providing a balanced
recycling option.

Due to rounding, it is not always possible to use the crafting table pricing.
Here is a complete list of discounted items:
1. Stairs: cost 1 plank (same discount as Vanilla stones.)
2. Boats: cost 4 planks (crafting table cost is 5 planks.)
3. Signs: cost 2 planks (crafting table cost is 6 planks, 1 stick for 3 signs,
  thus the total discount is 1 stick.)
4. Wood blocks: cost 1 log (crafting table cost is 4 logs for 3 woods.)

Recycling cost are adjusted to the discounted prices, so that it is not possible
to dupe planks.

Notes
-----

1. Chest/Barrel from logs recipes have not been added, because they would
result in cutting the Vanilla pricing in half.
2. To avoid conflicting with the recipe for Chiseled blocks, the recipe to
reassemble Slabs into a block is 2-slabs side-by-side horizontally, rather than
stacked.
3. You can recycle many wood items into planks and sticks, but you can never
get back a log.
4. You can recycle a Smooth or Cracked stone to its base block, but Smooth and
Cracked stones can only be obtained from heat-cycling them in the
furnace, and is thus not directly reversible.
5. You can craft a Stone Button on the Stonecutter, but not a Stone Pressure
Plate, as that would result in cutting Vanilla pricing in half. You can
recycle both in the Stonecutter.
6. You cannot recycle fences and fence gates to planks, but only to sticks. This
is to avoid enabling reforming sticks into planks.

license
-------

[OmniCut Datapack for Minecraft][] by [MeeniMC][] is
licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0![][1]![][2]![][3]![][4]][5]

Contact me if you have commercial plans.

  [OmniCut Datapack for Minecraft]: https://github.com/MeeniMc/OmniCut
  [MeeniMC]: https://github.com/MeeniMc
  [1]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [2]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [3]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/nc.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [4]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [5]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0

Commit message:

Add bamboo recipes
Signed-off-by: MeeniMc <68366846+MeeniMc@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

OmniCut Better Stonecutter, Woodcutter, and Recycling
=====================================================

OmniCut is a quality of life Datapack for Minecraft that expands on the
capabilities of the Stonecutter block.

Cutting
-------

### Wood Cutting

The Stonecutter can cut wood logs into a variety of wood products (e.g., stairs,
slabs, fences, doors, etc.) Prices are consistent with the plank-based crafting
recipe. Logs can be converted to Woods (at a discount).

### Copper cutting

The Stonecutter can cut Copper block variants into the corresponding Cut Copper
Stairs and Slabs variants.

### Deepslate conversion

The Stonecutter can  convert Deepslate blocks to Cobbled Deepslate blocks.

Recycling
---------

### Stone upcycling

The Stonecutter can revert cut blocks into the original form (e.g., Polished
Andesite Stairs back to an Andesite block).

Note that similarly to Polished and Bricks variants, Smooth and Cracked variants
can also convert to the base block, but remember that the only way to smooth or
crack a stone is using the furnace.

### Wood recycling

Both the Stonecutter and the crafting table can be used to downcycle/recycle
wood products (e.g., doors to planks, slabs to sticks, etc.)

### Slab reassembly

The Crafting Table can reassemble slabs into blocks. The recipe is two slabs
side-by-side horizontally.

About Item Pricing
------------------

Unlike many predecessors, **this datapack does not intend to significantly
reduce the price of items compared to vanilla pricing.** The prices have been
set so that, beside the customary discount on stairs, the prices are identical
when using the Stonecutter versus the crafting table recipe. This is only a
quality of life change w.r.t. the number of clicks required to create the items,
and to reduce the number of leftover junk items by providing a balanced
recycling option.

Due to rounding, it is not always possible to use the crafting table pricing.
Here is a complete list of discounted items:
1. Stairs: cost 1 plank (same discount as Vanilla stones.)
2. Wood blocks: cost 1 log (crafting table cost is 4 logs for 3 woods.)
2. Boats: cost 4 planks (crafting table cost is 5 planks.)
3. Signs: cost 2 planks (crafting table cost is 6 planks, 1 stick for 3 signs,
  thus the total discount is 1 stick.)
4. fence: cost 4/3 planks (crafting table cost is 4 planks, 2 sticks for 3 fences,
  thus the total discount is 2 sticks.)

In addition, bamboo producing only 2 planks per bamboo blocks causes the additional
price adjustments discounts, making bamboo fence and rafts very price attractive compared
to wood-based equivalent:
1. Bamboo raft: cost 2 planks (crafting table cost is 5 planks.)
2. Bamboo fence: cost 1 plank (crafting table cost is 4 planks 2 sticks for 3 fences,
  thus total discount 1 plank, 2 sticks.)
3. Bamboo fence gate: cost 2 planks (crafting table cost is 2 planks, 4 sticks,
  thus total discount is 4 sticks.)

All recycling cost are adjusted to the discounted prices, so that it is not possible
to dupe planks.

Notes
-----

1. Chest/Barrel from logs recipes have not been added, because they would
result in cutting the Vanilla pricing in half.
2. To avoid conflicting with the recipe for Chiseled blocks, the recipe to
reassemble Slabs into a block is 2-slabs side-by-side horizontally, rather than
stacked.
3. You can recycle many wood items into planks and sticks, but you can never
get back a log.
4. You can recycle a Smooth or Cracked stone to its base block, but Smooth and
Cracked stones can only be obtained from heat-cycling them in the
furnace, and is thus not directly reversible.
5. You can craft a Stone Button on the Stonecutter, but not a Stone Pressure
Plate, as that would result in cutting Vanilla pricing in half. You can
recycle both in the Stonecutter.
6. You cannot recycle fences and fence gates to planks, but only to sticks. This
is to avoid enabling reforming sticks into planks.

license
-------

[OmniCut Datapack for Minecraft][] by [MeeniMC][] is
licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0![][1]![][2]![][3]![][4]][5]

Contact me if you have commercial plans.

  [OmniCut Datapack for Minecraft]: https://github.com/MeeniMc/OmniCut
  [MeeniMC]: https://github.com/MeeniMc
  [1]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [2]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [3]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/nc.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [4]: https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg?ref=chooser-v1
  [5]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0
